# Spotify Playlist Generator

This app allows the user to view their entire saved Spotify library, view all the genres present inside of their library, and generate custom playlists from within their library based on genres they selected. I used React.js for the front-end of the project and Node and Express on the back-end. The Express serves static React assets to the user so I could avoid using more than one server for hosting. I also used MongoDB to store basic user information such as their Spotify username, the API token and refresh token, and a cookie that is saved to the browser which allows the app to be used by more than one user at a time without mixing up their data.

# Link to the hosted app

https://mendoza-playlist.herokuapp.com/
# Instructions

User must first log in using the login window that pops up after they have clicked the login button at the top right of the window. After they have logged in and closed the login window, the app will connect with Spotify and retrieve their library (this step takes a little while depending on how many songs are in the user's library). After the app has the user's library, the home screen will switch to saying "Ok, let's get started" and some option buttons will appear in the top right where the login button used to be. "My Library" and "User Info" will just show the user's library and user information. Clicking the "Create" button will take the user to the playlist creation page where they will be prompted to create by genre or create by artist. After making a selection the app will display a list of genres or artists to choose from to add to the playlist. This list is a scrollable list containing all the genres or artists present in the user's library. Clicking on a genre or artist on the selected list on the right hand side of the window will remove the genre or artist from the list. After making as many selections as they like, the user can click the "Show Playlist" button below the selected to view the track list and to add a name for the playlist. Clicking on a track on the this list will also remove it from the playlist. After the user has input a name, they can click the "Create" button to generate the playlist, or they can click "Go Back" to continue editing, or "Clear Selection" to completely start over. Once the user has clicked "Create" the app will generate the playlist and provide a link for the user to click through to the Spotify website and view their newly created playlist.